Events & Deadlines - DSI

Skip to main content

 

MS in Applied Data Science

 facet-arrow-down 

 

 

MS in Applied Data Science
Follow

 

MS in Applied Data Science

Events & Deadlines

 Welcome to the Events & Deadlines page for the MS in Applied Data Science program! Here, you'll find all the latest updates, upcoming events, important deadlines, and additional news related to our exciting program. Stay informed and engaged with everything happening in the world of data science. 

Upcoming Events

Ask A Student Information Session (Online student)

The “Ask a Student” series allows prospective students the opportunity to meet virtually with current students in the MS in Applied Data Science program. Are you curious about life as a student in the University of Chicago’s MS in Applied Data Science program? Do you have burning questions about coursework, projects, or the overall student experience? Well, you’re in luck! We’re thrilled to announce our upcoming virtual event, “Ask a Student,” where you can get all your queries answered.

Date: November 10, 2025

Time: 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM (CST)

Registration: 
Click Here

Online Program Information Session

The 
MS in Applied Data Science
 program at UChicago is applied in nature, integrating business strategy, project-based learning, simulations, case studies, and specific electives addressing the data needs of various industry sectors. Through partnerships with key employers, the program also provides students with applied projects and data sets as well as access to career networks and employment pathways upon graduation. Join us for an online information session to learn program details, admission requirements, and how you can get started.

Date: November 13, 2025

Time: 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM (CST)

Registration: 
Click Here

Catch Us at a Graduate Fair Near You

Our enrollment team is hitting the road! We’ll be at grad fairs across the country this autumn, if we’re stopping near you, swing by to meet our team, ask your questions, and learn more about the UChicago MS in Applied Data Science program.

Click ‘Read More’ to see more details about upcoming graduate & professional school fairs (through November 2025)

California
• 
National Collegiate Honors Council Annual Conference —  Nov 8, 9AM – 4 PM PST

Hilton San Diego Bayfront Hotel, Indigo West Foyer

Illinois
• Grace Hopper Celebration —  Nov 4th through Nov 7th

 

Read More +

Show Less -

Stay Connected!

Follow us on Instagram (
@dsi_uchicago
) and TikTok (
@msads_uchicago
)

Check out our Data Science Seminar Series on YouTube:
 
Link
 to Past Seminars

Watch our most recent seminar from January 27th: 
The AI Revolution: How Technology is Reshaping Jobs & Careers

Deadlines

All program offerings, including the part-time online program, begin in Autumn. Curious about the academic calendar? Please use the following link to access current and future calendar years: 
Academic Calendar

We are excited to announce that the application portal for the Master’s in Applied Data Science is now open! 

With the application portal now open, we encourage prospective applicants to take the following steps:

Update your resume
 to reflect your most recent experiences and achievements.

Connect with your recommenders
 to ensure you secure strong letters of recommendation. 

Schedule a conversation
 with 
Patrick Vonesh
 and/or 
Jose Alvarado
 to learn more about the program and discuss your goals.

Attend one of our upcoming, virtual events. 

In-Person:

December 4, 2025

Scholarship Priority Deadline 1-year (12-15 months; 12 courses)

Final Application Deadline 2-year Thesis Track (21 months; 18 courses)*

January 26, 2026 – International Application Deadline (requiring visa sponsorship from UChicago)

March 4, 2026 – Second Priority Application Deadline

May 6, 2026 – Third Priority Application Deadline

June 23, 2026 – Final Application Deadline

Online:

Autumn 2026

December 4, 2025 – Scholarship Priority Deadline

June 23, 2026 – Final Application Deadline

Online application decisions are released on a rolling basis. The deadline represents the last date applications are accepted for the respective start date.

*The application portal may close early if the cohort is filled.

 
 

arrow-left-small
arrow-right-large-grey
arrow-right-large-yellow
arrow-right-large
arrow-right-long-yellow
arrow-right-small
close
facet-arrow-down-white
facet-arrow-down
Checked
Checked
link-out
mag-glass