In-Person Program - DSI

Skip to main content

 

MS in Applied Data Science

 facet-arrow-down 

 

 

MS in Applied Data Science
Follow

 

MS in Applied Data Science

In-Person Program

 The In-Person program is ideal for those who learn best in an in-person classroom environment, want access to in-person student services and amenities, and prefer to be located in Chicago for the duration of the degree program.  

Tailor Your Data Science Journey

Complete your master’s degree full- or part-time with UChicago’s In-Person MS in Applied Data Science program. While many In-Person students are early in their careers, the most competitive applicants will have at least 1 year of full-time work experience and 1 or more relevant, sustained internships.

For those seeking part-time study and those with more years of full-time work experience (3+), 
our Online program is optimized for you
.

1-Year 12 Course Program (Full- and Part-Time Options)

The signature 1-year 12 course program is ideal for those who wish to fast-track their graduate studies. Full-time students typically graduate in 4–5 quarters; part-time students may take up to 6 quarters. All students must graduate within 4 years maximum.

All students complete:

12 courses
 (6 Core, 4 Electives, 2 Capstone).

A 
required Career Seminar 
throughout the program. Those with 3+ years of full-time work experience may petition for exemption.

A 
2-quarter Capstone Project
 with a real industry partner; some students opt to complete a research Capstone.

Courses are primarily offered in the evenings and on weekends to support working professionals. The program is 
STEM/OPT eligible
.

 

Read More +

Show Less -

2-Year Thesis Track, 18 Course Program (Full-Time Only)

Beginning in academic year 2026-27, UChicago will offer an additional 2-year (21 month) pathway for In-Person, Full-Time applicants.

The 2-year Thesis Track (18 courses) pathway is optimized for those who want a longer master’s program, are interested in taking more elective courses, and have the capacity to complete a master’s thesis. The 2-year (21 month) pathway is completed over 6 academic quarters. The summer in between years 1 and 2 serves as a vacation quarter.

Within the application portal, applicants will indicate their selection of this pathway. Read more about applying to the 2-Year program.

All students complete:

18 total courses 
(6 Core, 8 Electives, 2 Capstone, 2 Independent Study).

A 
required Career Seminar 
throughout the program. Those with 3+ years of full-time work experience may petition for exemption.

A 
2-quarter Capstone Project
.

A 
Master’s Thesis
 (traditional written thesis or project-based thesis).

This option is ideal for students seeking a longer academic experience with more time to complete more elective courses. Students must also have the capacity to complete a traditional written thesis or thesis project.

 

Read More +

Show Less -

Comparison Chart

This program is listed as a STEM designated degree by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for the purposes of the STEM OPT extension allowing eligible students to apply. However, approval of STEM OPT is at the discretion of U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services.

Your Career Success

Take the next step to advance your career with UChicago’s MS in Applied Data Science.

The In-Person program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in Autumn quarter annually. The full-time, in-person MS in Applied Data Science program is 
STEM/OPT eligible
. Please visit the 
Online
 program page if you are interested in those full- and part-time options.

Your Engagement

If you learn best in an in-person classroom environment and prefer to live in or near to Chicago, IL, the 
Master’s in Applied Data Science
 In-Person program is ideal for you. Your high-tech classrooms are located in downtown Chicago (
NBC Tower
, 
Gleacher Center
), and you will have access to tailored, in-person student services and program amenities. Most courses are from 6-9pm Monday through Thursday with some offered on Fridays and Saturdays. This allows you to work in an internship and/or job during the program. Select courses are offered during the day. Learn more about 
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
.

Your Student Experience

As an In-Person program student, you will have access to expert 
faculty and instructors
 with industry expertise, a full-service 
student affairs team,
 and an unparalleled network of 
global alumni
. 
Our team
 is passionate about supporting a Signature Student Experience tailored to your needs.

Program Director, 
Greg Green, PhD

Your Outcomes

Your success is our success. Graduates of UChicago’s Master’s in Applied Data Science program consistently demonstrate competitive outcomes. You will have full access to our tailored career services and external partnerships team to help you advance your career in data science–whether you are launching your career, interested in pivoting, or want to move up within your current company. You can take advantage of in-house career services advising and coaching, tailored networking events, career fairs to connect directly with employers, internship placement support, and more.

By and For Data Science Innovators

You will earn UChicago’s Master’s in Applied Data Science by successfully completing the required curriculum and our tailored, multi-quarter Career Seminar.

To keep up with the rapidly evolving field and job market, you will be challenged by our rigorous curriculum that is designed by and for data science innovators and leaders. Courses are reviewed annually to ensure the content keeps pace with the rapidly evolving landscape of data science.

You have the flexibility to pursue the 
Master’s in Applied Data Science
 degree on a part- or full-time schedule. Part-time students enroll in two courses each quarter and take their courses in the evenings or on Saturdays. Full-time students take three courses per quarter. Some of their courses may be offered during the day. All courses are taught at the NBC Tower or Gleacher Center in downtown Chicago.

Get in Touch

If you would like to receive periodic information about the MS in Applied Data Science program, 
please enter your information in this form
. Visit us on 
YouTube
 and 
GitHub
.

Noncredit Courses 

 Career Seminar (Seminar, required) 

The Pass/Fail Career Seminar supports the development of industry professional skills, job and/or internship searches, and other in-demand areas of competency among today’s employers. Students enroll in the Career Seminar each quarter in order to engage in unique content throughout their degree program. Students with significant full-time work experience may be eligible to waive this course. 0 units, no cost.

 Introduction to Statistical Concepts (Foundational, optional) 

This course is held in the five weeks leading up to the start of your first quarter and provides general exposure to basic statistical concepts necessary for success in advanced courses in the program. 0 units, no cost.

 R for Data Science (Foundational, optional) 

This course is held the five weeks leading up to the start of your first quarter and is an introduction to the essential concepts and techniques for the statistical computing language R. 0 units, no cost.

 Python for Data Science (Foundational, optional) 

This course is held concurrently with the first five weeks of your first quarter in the program and starts with an introduction to the Python programming language basic syntax and environment. 0 units, no cost.

 Advanced Linear Algebra for Machine Learning (Foundational, optional) 

This course is held concurrently with the second five weeks of your first quarter in the program and is focused on the theoretical concepts and real-life applications of linear algebra for machine learning. 0 units, no cost.

 Brush up on the Basics (Optional resource) 

If you would like to gauge your preparation in Foundational course topics, we recommend specific Coursera courses that cover very similar topics.

If you would like to gauge your preparation in Foundational course topics, we recommend specific Coursera courses that cover very similar topics.

Four Coursera courses cover very similar topics. You can review the Coursera curricula to see if you are already well-prepared, or if you like, study their materials to brush up on some or all of these topics.

Mathematics for Machine Learning: Linear Algebra (offered by University College London)

Basis Data Descriptors, Statistical Distributions, and Application to Business Decisions (offered by Rice University)

Python for Data Science, AI, & Development (offered by IBM)

Data Analysis with R Programming (offered by Google)

Core Courses

 Time Series Analysis and Forecasting 

Time Series Analysis is a science as well as the art of making rational predictions based on previous records. It is widely used in various fields in today’s business settings.

 Statistical Models for Data Science 

In a traditional linear model, the observed response follows a normal distribution, and the expected response value is a linear combination of the predictors.  Since Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777-1855) and Adrien-Marie Legendre (1752-1833) created this linear model framework in the early 1800s, the “Linear Normal” assumption has been the norm in statistics/data science for almost two centuries.  New methods based on probability distributions other than Gaussian appeared only in the second half of the twentieth century. These methods allowed working with variables that span a broader variety of domains and probability distributions. Besides, methods for the analysis of general associations were developed that are different from the Pearson correlation.

 Machine Learning I 

This course is aimed at providing students an introduction to machine learning with data mining techniques and algorithms. It gives a rigorous methodological foundation in analytical and software tools to successfully undertake projects in Data Science. Students are exposed to concepts of exploratory analyses for uncovering and detecting patterns in multivariate data, hypothesizing and detecting relationships among variables, conducting confirmatory analyses, and building models for predictive and descriptive purposes. It will present predictive modeling in the context of balancing predictive and descriptive accuracies.

 Machine Learning II 

The objective of this course is three-folds–first, to extend student understanding of predictive modeling with machine learning concepts and methodologies from Machine Learning 1 into the realm of Deep Learning and Generative AI. Second, to develop the ability to apply those concepts and methodologies to diverse practical applications, evaluate the results and recommend the next best action. Third, to discuss and understand state-of-the machine learning and deep learning research and development and their applications.

 Data Engineering Platforms for Analytics or Big Data and Cloud Computing 

Data Engineering Platforms teaches effective data engineering—an essential first step in building an analytics-driven competitive advantage in the market.

Big Data and Cloud Computing teaches students how to approach big data and large-scale machine learning applications. There is no single definition of big data and multiple emerging software packages exist to work with it, and we will cover the most popular approaches.

 Leadership and Consulting for Data Science 

The Leadership and Consulting for Data Scientist course is focused on:

• Learning techniques and proven methods to effectively grasp the business domain including organizational dynamics of consultancies and client organizations

• Developing relevant solutions to enterprise problems using the sampling methods, traditional statistical techniques and modern machine learning models that deliver value to the organization

• Practicing successful project delivery through effective data discovery, influential team membership and leadership, project management, and communication at every stage

This course will not only make you a better data scientist; it will make you and your analyses more approachable, more persuasive, and ultimately more successful.

 Data Science Capstone Project 

The required Capstone Project is completed over two quarters and covers research design, implementation, and writing. 
Full-time students start their capstone project in their third quarter. Part-time students generally begin the capstone project in their fifth quarter.

Sample Elective Courses

 Advanced Computer Vision with Deep Learning 

 Computer vision is the field of computer science that focuses on creating digital systems that can process, analyze, and make sense of visual data in the same way that humans do. Deep learning is a subset of machine learning and a branch of Artificial Intelligence (AI). It involves the training, deployment, and application of large complex neural network architectures to solve cutting-edge problems. Deep Learning has become the primary approach for solving cognitive problems such as Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing (NLP) and has had a massive impact on various industries such as healthcare, retail, automotive, industrial automation, and agriculture. This course will enable students to build Deep Learning models and apply them to computer vision tasks such as object recognition, detection, and segmentation. Students will gain an in-depth understanding of the Deep Learning model development process, tools, and frameworks. Although the focus of the course will primarily be computer vision, students will work on both image and nonimage datasets during class exercises and assignments. Students will gain hands-on experience in popular libraries such as Tensorflow, Keras, and PyTorch. Students will also learn to apply state of the art models such as ResNet, EfficientNet, RCNNs, YOLO, Vision Transformers, etc. for computer vision and work on datasets such as CIFAR, ImageNet, MS COCO, and MPII Human Poses.

 Advanced Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence 

Since the era of big data started, challenges associated with data analysis have grown significantly in different directions: First, the technological infrastructure had to be developed that can hold and process large amounts of data from different sources and of multiple not always well formalized formats. Second, data analysis methods had to be reviewed, selected and modified to work in distributed computational environments like combinations of in-house clusters of servers and cloud. But the biggest challenge of all is learning to think differently in order to ask new types of questions that could not be answered by analyses of less complex data streams with less complex technological infrastructure. In recent years significant progress has been achieved in creating technological ecosystems for big data analysis. Innovative technologies such as open source projects MapReduce, Hadoop, Spark, Storm, Kafka, TensorFlow, H2O, etc. allowed us to look at depths of data unseen before. We now have a growing number of sources and educational courses introducing these new tools. However, developing new data analysis methods appropriate to these new data ecosystems is more difficult than it appears.

 Applied Generative AI: Agents and Multimodal Intelligence 

This course explores Advanced Generative AI with a focus on multimodal modeling, a transformative AI paradigm integrating diverse data types—text, images, audio, video, time-series, and point clouds. Multimodal AI is reshaping industries, from autonomous systems and e-commerce to healthcare and intelligent media applications. Students will gain a deep understanding of generative AI, including image generation, transformers in vision, knowledge distillation, vision-language modeling, multimodal fusion, video generation, audio synthesis, and time-series analysis. A key focus is integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) with other modalities to develop next-generation multimodal conversational AI.The course blends theoretical depth with hands-on experience, covering cross-modal alignment, data fusion, and multimodal reasoning using cutting-edge tools. Industry-driven labs connect concepts to real-world applications, equipping students to design innovative AI solutions in autonomous navigation, robotics, healthcare, and finance. Additionally, the course introduces Agentic Systems and Vertical AI Agents, highlighting specialized AI frameworks for intelligent decision-making and adaptive, industry-specific AI agents. Ethical considerations and deployment strategies for autonomous agents are also explored, preparing students to lead AI-driven transformation across industries.

 Bayesian Machine Learning with Generative AI Applications 

This course provides a strong theoretical and practical skillset for probabilistic machine learning applications. Bayesian inference and modeling methods are important for several areas including prediction, decision making, and risk assessment where modeling the uncertainty is needed. The course begins with an introduction to Bayesian statistical analysis, covering the foundations of Bayesian inference and the application of Bayes’ theorem for statistical inference. We then introduce Bayesian networks, which offer a powerful graphical tool for modeling complex systems and making probabilistic inferences. The course then advances to cover more sophisticated topics such as Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods for sampling from complex probability distributions, hierarchical models, and model selection techniques. The final three weeks are dedicated to cutting-edge methodologies like Generative Deep Learning, Variational Autoencoders, and Bayesian Neural Networks, all rooted in Bayesian Machine Learning. Upon completion, students will be equipped to apply Bayesian methods to a wide range of real-world problems in fields such as engineering, business, finance, and public policy, addressing challenges like missing data or training AI models that are able to say ‘I don’t know’.

 Causal Models for Data Science 

This course is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills to perform causal inference with machine learning. Students learn practical skills for designing and analyzing experiments. The course begins with a quick overview of the basics of correlational and cross-sectional analytical techniques. It then introduces the importance of randomization in explainability and causal inference. The issues of bias in observational studies are examined. Students use AI/ML models to quantify randomization errors and correct violations of non-randomization. Finally, counterfactuals for individual predictions are examined.

 Data Science for Algorithmic Marketing 

This course focuses on marketing science methods and algorithms for undertaking competitive analysis in the digital landscape: market segmentation, mining databases for effective digital marketing, design of new digital and traditional products, forecasting sales and product diffusion, real time product positioning, intra omni-channel optimization and inter omni-channel resource allocation, and pricing across both omni-channel marketing effectiveness and ROI. The course will use a combination of lecture, in-class discussions, group assignments, and a final group project. The course lays special emphasis on algorithms. Hence it draws heavily from the fields of optimization, machine-learning based recommendation systems, association rules, consumer choice models, Bayesian estimation, experimentation and analysis of covariance, advanced visualization techniques for mapping brand perceptions, and analysis of social media data using advanced NLP techniques.

 Data Science for Healthcare 

Given the breadth of the field of health analytics, this course will provide an overview of the development and rapid expansion of analytics in healthcare, major and emerging topical areas, and current issues related to research methods to improve human health. We will cover such topics as security concerns unique to the field, research design strategies, and the integration of epidemiologic and quality improvement methodologies to operationalize data for continuous improvement. Students will be introduced to the application of predictive analytics to healthcare. Students will understand factors impacting the delivery of quality and safe patient care and the application of data-driven methods to improve care at the healthcare system level, design approaches to answering a research question at the population level, become familiar with the application of data analytics to impacting care at the provider level through Clinical Decision Systems, and understand the process of a Clinical Trial.

 Data Visualization Techniques 

In today’s data driven enterprise, data storytelling using effective visualization strategies is an essential skill for analytics practitioners in almost every field to explore and present data. This course focuses on modern data visualization technologies, tools, and techniques to convert raw data into actionable information. Modern data visualization tools are at the forefront of the “self-service analytics” architectures which are decentralizing analytics and breaking down IT bottlenecks for business experts. Moreover, with its foundations rooted in statistics, psychology, and computer science, data visualization shows you how to better understand the data, present clear evidence of your findings to your intended audience and tell engaging data stories through charts and graphics. This course is designed to introduce data visualization as a medium of effective communication using strategic storytelling, and the basis for interactive information dashboards.

 Digital Marketing Analytics in Theory and Practice 

Successfully marketing brands today requires a well-balanced blend of art and science. This course introduces students to the science of web analytics while casting a keen eye toward the artful use of numbers found in the digital space. The goal is to provide marketers with the foundation needed to apply data analytics to real-world challenges they confront daily in their professional lives. Students will learn to identify the web analytic tool right for their specific needs; understand valid and reliable ways to collect, analyze, and visualize data from the web; and utilize data in decision making for their agencies, organizations or clients. By completing this course, students will gain an understanding of the motivations behind data collection and analysis methods used by marketing professionals; learn to evaluate and choose appropriate web analytics tools and techniques; understand frameworks and approaches to measuring consumers’ digital actions; earn familiarity with the unique measurement opportunities and challenges presented by New Media; gain hands-on, working knowledge of a step-by-step approach to planning, collecting, analyzing, and reporting data; utilize tools to collect data using today’s most important online techniques: performing bulk downloads, tapping APIs, and scraping webpages; and understand approaches to visualizing data effectively.

 Deep Reinforcement Learning 

This course is an introduction to reinforcement learning, also known as neuro-dynamic programming. It discusses basic and advanced concepts in reinforcement learning and provides several practical applications. Reinforcement learning refers to a system or agent interacting with an environment and learning how to behave optimally in such an environment. An environment typically includes time, actions, states, uncertainty and rewards. Reinforcement learning combines neural networks and dynamic programming to find an optimal behavior or policy of the system or agent in a complex environment setting. Neural network approximations are used to circumvent the well-known ‘curse of dimensionality’ which has been a barrier to solving many practical applications. Dynamic programming is the key learning mechanism that the system or the agent uses to interact with the environment and improve its performance. Students will master key learning techniques and will become proficient in applying these techniques to complex stochastic decision processes and intelligent control.

 Generative AI: Principles and Applications 

This course dives into the realm of Generative AI, offering a comprehensive look into the world of Large Language Models (LLMs), image generation techniques, and the fusion of vision and text through multimodal models. Drawing from core concepts in neural networks, transformers, and advanced techniques such as prompt engineering, vision prompting, and multimodality representation, students will explore the capabilities, applications, and ethical considerations of generative models. This course culminates in hands-on projects, allowing participants to apply theory to practical scenarios.

 Machine Learning Operations 

The objective of this course is two-fold: first, to understand what Machine Learning Operations (MLOps) is and why it is a key component in enterprise production deployment of machine learning projects, and second, to expose students to software engineering, model engineering and state-of-the-art deployment engineering with hands-on platform and tools experience. This course crosses the chasm that separates machine learning projects/experiments and enterprise production deployment. It covers three pillars in MLOps: software engineering such as software architecture, Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery and data versioning; model engineering such as AutoML and A/B experimentation; and deployment engineering such as docker containers and model monitoring. The course focuses on best practices in the industry that are critical to enterprise production deployment of machine learning projects. Having completed this course, a student understands the machine learning lifecycle and what it takes to go from ideation to operationalization in an enterprise environment. Furthermore, students get exposure to state-of-the-art MLOps platforms such as allegro, xpresso, Dataiku, LityxIQ, DataRobot, AWS Sagemaker, and technologies such as gitHub, Jenkins, slack, docker, and kubernetes.

 Next-Gen NLP: LLM and Agentic AI in Practice 

Extracting actionable insights from unstructured text and designing cognitive applications have become significant areas of application for analytics. Students in this course will learn foundations of natural language processing, including: concept extraction; text summarization and topic modeling; part of speech tagging; named entity recognition; semantic roles and sentiment analysis. For advanced NLP applications, we will focus on feature extraction from unstructured text, including word and paragraph embedding and representing words and paragraphs as vectors. For cognitive analytics section of the course, students will practice designing question answering systems with intent classification, semantic knowledge extraction and reasoning under uncertainty. Students will gain hands-on expertise applying Python for text analysis tasks, as well as practice with multiple IBM Watson services, including: Watson Discovery, Watson Conversation, Watson Natural Language Classification and Watson Natural Language Understanding.

 Optimization and Simulation Methods for Data Science 

This course introduces students to how optimization and simulation techniques can be used to solve many real-life problems. It will cover two classes of optimization methods. First class has been developed to optimize real, non- simulated systems or to find the optimal solution of a mathematical model. The methods that belong to this class include liner programming, quadratic programming and mixed-integer programming. Second class of methods has been developed to optimize a simulation model. The difference with the classical mathematical programming methods is that the objective function (which is the function to be minimized or maximized) is not known explicitly and is defined by the simulation model (computer code). The course will demonstrate multiple approaches to build simulation models, such as discrete event simulations and agent-based simulations. Then, it will show how stochastic optimization and heuristic approaches can be used to analyze the simulated system and design a sequence of computational experiments that allow to develop a basic understanding of a particular simulation model or system through exploration of the parameter space, to find robust plausible behaviors and conditions and robust near-optimal solutions that are not prone to being unstable under small perturbations.

 Quantitative Finance: Methods and Applications 

This course concentrates on the following topics: review of financial markets and assets traded on them; main characteristics of financial analytics: returns, yields, volatility; review of stochastic models of market price and their statistical representations; concept of arbitrage, elements of arbitrage pricing approach; principles of volatility analyses, implied vs. realized volatility; correlation, cointegration and other relationships between various financial assets; market risk analytics and management of portfolios of financial assets. The course puts special emphasis on covering main steps of building analytics from visualizing data and building intuition about their structure and patterns to selecting appropriate statistical method to interpretation of the results and building analytical models. Topics are illustrated by data analysis projects using R. Basic familiarity with R is a requirement.

 Real Time Intelligent Systems 

Developing end-to-end automation and intelligent systems is now the most advanced area of application for analytics. Building such systems requires proficiency in programming, understanding of computer systems, as well as knowledge of related analytical methodologies, which are the skills that this course aims to teach to students. The course focuses on python and is tailored for students with basic programming knowledge in python. The course is partially project based. During the first three sessions, we will review basic python concepts and then learn more advanced python and the ways to use python to handle large data flows. The later sessions are project based and will focus on developing end-to-end analytical solutions in the following areas: Finance and trading, blockchains and crypto-currencies, image recognition, and video surveillance systems.

 Supply Chain Optimization 

“Big Data” continues to grow exponentially in our large-scale transactional world where 100,000s of SKUs and millions of customers are interacting with 1:1 offers that include differential pricing, shipping timing/costs and even made to order “custom” product configurations. These consumer behaviors are quickly advancing the availability of new data and techniques within the discipline of Data Science. This elective course will give students the opportunity to apply their skills in data visualization, data mining tools, predictive modeling, and advanced optimization techniques to address Supply Chain challenges. The course focuses on the use of Advanced Predictive Modeling, Machine Learning, AI and other Data Science insight and activation tools to automate and optimize the performance of the Supply Chain. Students will also learn how to optimize the performance of the Supply Chain from the lens of multiple related disciplines including: Sales Forecasting, Warehousing/Inventory Management, Promotion, Pricing, Logistics Network Optimization, Freight Cost Management, Manufacturing, Retail POS Information, Ecommerce, Consumer Data, and Product Design/Packaging. After completing this course, you will be prepared to work in any of the numerous specialty areas possible in the world of Supply Chain Management.

 
 

arrow-left-small
arrow-right-large-grey
arrow-right-large-yellow
arrow-right-large
arrow-right-long-yellow
arrow-right-small
close
facet-arrow-down-white
facet-arrow-down
Checked
Checked
link-out
mag-glass