How to Apply - DSI

Skip to main content

 

MS in Applied Data Science

 facet-arrow-down 

 

 

MS in Applied Data Science
Follow

 

MS in Applied Data Science

How to Apply

 The application for entrance in 2026 is now open! 

Master’s in Applied Data Science Application Requirements

The 
application portal
* for 2026 entrance is now open. Check out our blog post 
here
 on tips for applying to the program.

The 
In-Person
 and 
Online
 program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in the autumn quarter annually.

Only completed applications are sent for committee review.

*The 
application portal
 may close early if the cohort is filled.

Next Application Deadlines:

In-Person:

December 4, 2025

Scholarship Priority Deadline 1-year (12-15 months; 12 courses)

Final Application Deadline 2-year Thesis Track (21 months; 18 courses)**

January 26, 2026 – International Application Deadline (requiring visa sponsorship from UChicago)

March 4, 2026 – Second Priority Application Deadline

May 6, 2026 – Third Priority Application Deadline

June 23, 2026 – Final Application Deadline

Online:

Autumn 2026

June 23, 2026 – Final Application Deadline

**Those interested in applying to the In-Person, Full-Time 2 year, 18 course, thesis track program must apply for consideration by December 4, 2025. Limited spots are available. If not admitted to the 2 year program, applicants will automatically be considered for the 1 year, 12 course program unless they opt-out.

Letters of Recommendation

The MS in Applied Data Science program requires two letters of recommendation. We 
strongly recommend
 that at least one letter is written by someone such as a direct manager/supervisor or internship supervisor who can attest to skills you demonstrated or gained though a professional workplace experience (e.g., leadership, teamwork, collaboration, initiative, management, other).

Note: Letters of recommendation can be uploaded after you submit your application. Recommended sources for letters of recommendation include: professors; supervisors or managers; professional mentors.

We do not accept letters of recommendation from family members, friends, or peers.

Candidate Statement

The candidate statement is a key part of your application. The admissions committee pays careful attention to how you understand and present your aims and qualifications. The application will include a prompt with detailed instructions on the information the program is looking for in your candidate statement.

Best practices to keep in mind as you write:

Do not restate your resume.

Your statement should not exceed 700 words.

Resume/CV

The Master’s in Applied Data Science admissions committee will review your resume. We encourage you to take the time to carefully update the resume you submit to us.

Important to Include:

Work experience, including internships and part-time positions in the analytics/data science space

Major accomplishments and awards

Educational background, including areas of study

Professional conferences attended

Not needed:

Undergraduate or graduate GPA

Programming Supplement

Your 
application
 contains a section on programming skills. Although applicants with limited skills in R or Python can and do get accepted into the program, the admissions committee values prior programming experience. Include a PDF of 
no more than two pages
 demonstrating current programming language skills.

Examples include a PDF submission of work completed in R or Python. The programming supplement must be shared as a PDF file. We are looking for the following in your code (see below). Please note your code does not need to contain all of the below.

Ingest data from csv

Manage different data types

Use your function for data analysis

Visualize data

Wrangle data

Write your own function

Import libraries

Virtual Portfolio

The MS in Applied Data Science requires short, recorded videos to a given prompt(s) within the application. These short videos give applicants an alternative means to outline why they are a strong fit for the MS in Applied Data Science program.

One video prompt response is required; the other is optional. Each video should be approximately 1:30 minutes in length.

International Students

Only the full-time, in-person program is visa-eligible.

International students are also welcome to apply to our Master’s in Applied Data Science Online program, which does not require citizenship or permanent resident status and does not provide visa sponsorship.

English Language Requirement

Applicants to the Master’s in Applied Data Science program who do not meet the English Language Proficiency criteria must submit proof of English language proficiency.

Minimum scores for the Master’s in Applied Data Science program: TOEFL, 102 (no subscore requirement); IELTS, 7 (no subscore requirement).

Please review our waiver policy 
here
.

Transcripts from all previous colleges and universities attended

When applying to the program, only your 
unofficial
 transcripts are required. If you are admitted into the program, then official transcripts must be sent to the following (note a bachelor’s degree is required to apply to the program):

Please have your institution send your e-transcripts directly to:

applieddatascience-admissions@uchicago.edu
.

If
 
your institution cannot send your documents electronically, please have them send your transcripts to the following mailing address.

Please note, if documents are being mailed, we must receive them in their original, school-sealed envelope. If your documents are not received in a school-sealed envelope, they will be considered unofficial. Additionally, if your transcript does not list degree conferral information (degree earned and date of conferral), we will also need to receive an attested copy of your degree certificate.

The
 
University of Chicago

Attention: MS in Applied Data Science Admissions

455 N Cityfront Plaza Dr., Suite 2800

Chicago, Illinois 60611

Application Fee

There is a $90 non-refundable application fee. For questions regarding an application fee waiver, please refer to the 
Physical Sciences Division fee waiver policy
.

Tuition, Fees, & Aid

The program awards merit-based scholarships. Read more about 
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
.

Meet your Admissions Counselor

Online Program

Patrick Vonesh

Senior Assistant Director of Enrollment Management

Patrick Vonesh supports prospective students throughout the admissions process for the Online Master of Science in Applied Data Science program.

Learn more about Patrick

Start My App
 
Schedule an Appointment

In-Person Program

Jose Alvarado

Associate Director of Enrollment Management

Jose Alvarado supports prospective students throughout the admissions process for the In-Person Master of Science in Applied Data Science program.

Learn more about Jose

Start My App
 
Schedule an Appointment

Get in Touch

Before we get back to you, please check to see if your question has already been answered on our 
FAQs page.

 
 

arrow-left-small
arrow-right-large-grey
arrow-right-large-yellow
arrow-right-large
arrow-right-long-yellow
arrow-right-small
close
facet-arrow-down-white
facet-arrow-down
Checked
Checked
link-out
mag-glass